.TH l1u8recode 1 "10 January 2015"
.SH NAME
l1u8recode \- a smart utility to recode files from ISO-8859-1 (latin1) to UTF8
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBl1u8recode\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
l1u8recode supports mixed encodings and/or formats. It's able to handle these two special cases:

1. The recoding can be applied to delimited portions of the input. Useful for files that contains both text and binary data, such as RCS files;

2. Preserves characters already converted to UTF-8. Handy when you have texts with mixed encodings. Editing a file on different platforms can led it to this state.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print a status message and a summary for each file recoded.
.TP
\fB\-\-in\fR \fIFILENAME\fR
Input file (default: stdin).
.TP
\fB\-\-out\fR \fIFILENAME\fR
Output file. If ommited but input file was provided, the modification will occur in\-place.
.TP
\fB\-\-xargs\fR
Read input file names from stdin and recode them in\-place.
.TP
\fB\-\-begin\fR \fIPATTERN\fR
Recode only sections beginning with PATTERN. Used in conjunction with \-\-end.
.TP
\fB\-\-end\fR \fIPATTERN\fR
Recode only sections ending with PATTERN. Used in conjunction with \-\-begin.
.TP
\fB\-\-rcs\-log\fR
Recode only log messages in a RCS formatted file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
  $ find /var/cvsroot/project -name \\*,v | \fBl1u8recode\fR \-\-xargs \-v
.fi
Recodes all RCS files found in a CVS repository.
.SH HOMEPAGE
For more information see \fIhttps://github.com/eliezio/latin1-to-utf8\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Eliezio Oliveira <\fIebo -AT- pobox -DOT- com\fR>
